Unlimited3d - articles' archive
===============================

This repository represents an archive of articles:<br/>
https://blog.sview.ru

The contents of this repository could be generated into static HTML website by Jekyll generator.

## Repository structure

### /blog/*.md

Contains static website pages like `contact.md` and others.
Also contains a fixed list of pages listing posts per a category.

### /tags/*.md

Contains pages listing posts per a tag.
The list is generated by CI/CD action from `/.tags` file, as using custom plugins like `/_plugins/tags.rb` is cumbersome in CI/CD.

`.tags` file contains the list of predefined 'tags' for generation `/tags/tag1.md ... /tags/tagN.md` pages by a bash script.

### /_layouts/default.html

Basic template that includes:
- Navigation sidebar (listing all tags and categories);
- Top bar with a title of current page;
- Contents region;
- Bottom bar with contacts info.

### /_layouts/post.html

Template for a normal post.

### /_layouts/post_excerpt.html

Template for embedding post preview with a `post.thumbnail` image, listing post publication `post.date` and its `post.tags`.
The thumbnail image size is restricted by CSS style.

### /_layouts/tag.html

Template listing preview of all posts for a specific tag.

### /_posts/*.md

The articles are stored within `_posts` folder (following Jekyll conventions) in the way,
that they could be also rendered nicely by a MarkDown viewer directly within web interface for *git* repository:

- `/_posts/CATEGORY/YYYY-MM-DD-article-name/readme.md`
- `/_posts/CATEGORY/YYYY-MM-DD-article-name/_images/*.jpg`

The article itself is named as `readme.md`, which makes *git* navigators to display it while entering the folder.
All major images are placed into `_images` subfolder to make articles self-contained within their folder.
Markdown syntax uses relative URLs to `_images` rather than to toplevel website structure to avoid using Jekyll-specific syntax like `{{site.baseurl}}`.

The folders `_images` are copied to Jekyll's output `_site` by CI/CD action.
It might be better using `jekyll-postfiles` plugin instead, but default Jekyll's pipeline doesn't support this plugin out-of-the-box.

Each article has the following header:
```
---
layout: post
date: YYYY-MM-DD
title: ARTICLE NAME
categories: CATEGORY
permalink: /CATEGORY/YYYY-MM-DD-name/
thumbnail: /CATEGORY/YYYY-MM-DD-name/_images/thumb.png
tags: TAG1 TAG2 ... TAGN
---
```

Main categories:

- `/_posts/blog/`
  Posts related to 'blog' category (personal posts, not related to specific subject).
- `/_posts/occt/`
  Articles related to 'occt' category, e.g. about Open CASCADE Technology.
- `/_posts/sview/`
  Articles related to 'sview' category, e.g. about sView project.
- `/_posts/tools/`
  Articles related to 'tools' category, e.g. about small utility projects.
